This is a preliminary document talking about how file / text content indexing
will take place in nautilus


File search ui

Overall appearance

initially two rows of boxes:

      Find           all local files
where Name contains  text entry

more..



When the search pops up there are initially two rows of boxes.  The
first row of boxes contains a string "Find" followed by a selector.
The selector contains options on file location, including all local
files, all files in the current directory, and all files on the X
drive.  (The details of driving labelling have not been worked out,
but should be, since drives don't have user level names in Unix.)  The
second row begins with the string "where" and then contains two boxes.
The first is a search qualification box, which contains options on
types of searches.  For now these will include type is, name contains,
modified, larger than, smaller than, and containing text.  The name
contains options will have a compound menu that will allow the user to
change name contains to one of name is, name begins with, name ends
with.

Below these, there will be a "More" button.  Pressing the more button
will activate a third set of boxes, that will have the same options as
the second set of boxes, but a default that is not the search
criterion used in the above boxes.

Below the more button is a "Go" button, which will perform the search,
and create a virtual search folder with the results.

Users may select several containing text or name contains, which will
result in an "and" query on these criteria.  If the user selects a
query that is impossible, a notice will appear beneath the search
selection area, and the search will not be performed.

The options for each specific attribute are as follows:

type is:
a set of common mime types
a more button, allowing users to select from all mime types, and 
configure which mime types are considered common.

name contains/starts with/exact/case insensitive substring/glob pattern/regexp/ends with:
text entry box follows.

modified:
in the last week
in the last month
before this week
before this month

larger than:
1K
10K
100K
1 meg

smaller than:
1K
10K
100K
1 meg

containing text:
text entry box follows.






